# Fantastical Rules

## Animated
**Cost:  1 points (war machine only)**

The war machine has been animated and has a Move of 6+ and a Maximum Movement of 6”.

## Black Powder Weapons
**Cost: 0 points (mounted and foot units only)**

A unit armed with black powder weapons has a range of 12”, however at a range of 6” or less the target suffers a -1 to armour.

NB:  Units such as Long Rifles are better represented by *Light Missiles* + *Sharpshooter*.  Mounted units with pistols can use the standard *Mounted Missiles* rule.

## Demon Weapon
**Cost 2 points (restricted to Leader only)**

Any hits inflicted during Attacks are rounded up. (As per Undead: no feelings)

## Folk Hero / Holy man
**Cost: 1 point **

Any unit except ravenous hordes or units with Undead fantastical rule, may replace one ordinary miniature in the unit with a special character, who moves and fights like any other miniature in the unit, and should be the last miniature removed.

Units with a Folk Hero / Holy man gain a +1 to courage tests (in the same way as, and in addition to, being within 12” of their Leader – see page 11 of the rule book).  Folk Hero can not be combined with the Vexilla (Battle Standard) fantastical rule.

## High tech armour
**Cost:  0 points (Alien Elites only)**

Alien Elites retain much of their armoured space suits.  While they are no longer powered they are constructed of material much lighter than conventional heavy armour.  The maximum movement in high tech armour is 8”.

## Living gun
**Cost:  2 points (war machine only)**

The war machine is a living beast.  It has no crew, has Attack 7+, Attack Value 5+, Move 6+ and a Maximum Movement of 6”.  It can not take any of the options for that unit.

## Musician
**Cost: 1pt**

Units may be deployed with a musician to improve communication and morale.  A Muscian allows a +1 to any Move, Attack, or Shoot order given to the unit.  The Musician must be modeled (and should be placed in the front rank of the unit alongside any standard.

## Regeneration
**Cost: 3 points**

Vanilla <a href="https://ospreypublishing.com/dragon-rampant" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Dragon Rampant</a> lacks a fantastical rule useful for fielding trolls.  If we ignore what other games have done with trolls and look at fantasy literature - the inspiration for many people's armies - we get two basic styles of trolls.  Tom, Bert, and William ("Bill") Huggins the stone trolls that <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hobbit" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">the Hobbit</a> Bilbo Baggins encountered in the Trollshaws and the regenerating troll from Poul Anderson's <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three_Hearts_and_Three_Lions" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Three Hearts and Three Lions</a>, which is the inspiration for trolls in <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dungeons_%26_Dragons#Original_game" rel="nofollow" target="_blank">Dungeons and Dragons</a>.

With a bit of thought both are achievable in Dragon Rampant using a new fantastical rule. Creatures like Trolls regenerate damage from all attacks except for fire. When the unit has lost strength points, once per turn, roll a die and on a 5 or a 6 the unit recovers 1 strength point.

*For a Tolkien style troll*

  * Give each troll type a vulnerability (eg. sunlight for stone trolls, fire for hill trolls), the loss of strength points is permanent and unable to be regenerated if done with the force the troll is vulnerable to. This can be tracked using two dice.
  * The recovery roll is made when the unit is activated.
  * At zero or lower strength points the unit is dead and can not regenerate.

*For a Poul Anderson style troll (a troll that attempts to reassemble itself even when decapitated), a different approach is required.*

* Strength points lost from fire damage are permanently lost and can not be regenerated. All other strength points lost may be recovered even if the unit drops below zero strength points; this represents the hacked off limbs trying to crawl back together.
* The unit can attempt to regenerate strength points lost in one attack per turn, and makes the roll directly after the strength points are lost.
* When the unit falls below zero strength points and has strength points that can be regenerated (i.e. not caused by fire) the player can chose to activate the unit and make a regeneration roll. If an attacker chooses to target the pieces of the troll that are trying to reassemble, the troll should be considered to have a defense value of zero.

## Slither
**Cost: 1 point (Serpent species only)**

Serpents are, well, snakes. They are able to slither, climb, and swim where other creatures become stuck or bogged down. This unit does not halve its movement its movement in rough terrain (as Fleetfooted) and Impassable terrain only counts as Rough (halving movement)

## Tech Mage
**Cost:  4 Points**

A Tech Mage has at their disposal a selection of technology that functions to the primitive eye in the same way as a Spell-caster's spells do; follow the rules for casting a spell but attribute the effect to one of the Tech Mage’s gadgets.

## Vexilla (Battle Standard)
**Cost: 1 Point**

The army may be deployed with a flags, icons, or relics[^1] as inspiration to its members (referred to as a standard from this point onwards).  The standard should be clearly visible on or with the miniature and must be distinct from any feature or decoration on any other miniature in the unit. 

The standard bearer must be placed in the middle of the front rank of a unit (or deployed as a single model unit if you really want).  The miniature with the standard is the last miniature to be removed as a causality. 

Gain a +1 to courage tests (in the same way as, and in addition to, being within 12” of their Leader – see page 11 of the rulebook).  Vexilla (Battle Standard) can not be combined with the Folk Hero fantastical rule.

[^1]: Such as the severed head of a particularly fierce foe.